README.md, before:

![Game Image](image/others/readme_image_1.png)

## Table of Contents
- [Run Instructions](#run-instructions)
- [Controls](#controls)
- [Goal](#goal)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)

## Run Instructions

To run the source code, open the folder with your preferred IDE. Ensure you have `pygame`,  `gif-pygame` and `numpy` libraries installed; otherwise, it won't work. Assuming you have `pip`, install them using:

```sh
pip install pygame
```

```sh
pip install gif-pygame
```

```sh
pip install numpy
```

Alternatively, you can run the game using the executable found in the Releases section or create your own by running the `main.spec` file with `pyinstaller`. 
- Note: Both executables, whether from Releases or your own compilation, will **not** have a digital signature. As a result, some antivirus programs may flag them as malicious and delete them.

## Controls

Menus:
- Move up and down between options using the `W`, `S` or `↑`, `↓` keys on your keyboard.
- Switch between options using the `A`, `D` or `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
- Press `Enter` to enter the selected option.
- Press `Escape` or `Backspace` to go back in the menus or exit Circle Nom.

In-game:
- Singleplayer:
    - Move using `W`, `A`, `S`, `D` or the `↑`, `↓`, `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
    - Change the music using the `Q` & `E` keys - previous & next song.
    - Pause Circle Nom with the `P` key.
- Multiplayer:
    - Move Player 1 using the `W`, `A`, `S`, `D` keys on your keyboard.
    - Move Player 2 using the `↑`, `↓`, `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
    - Change the music using the `Q` & `E` keys - previous & next song.
    - Pause Circle Nom with the `P` key.

## Goal
Singleplayer:
- Score as many points as possible by eating randomly spawned food, while dodging daggers!

Multiplayer:
- Survive longer than the other player.

## Credits

Music used:
- [Circle Nom Playlist - YouTube](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXh2LnVpYeGshiAfckrBB0CvswgWv08WY&si=fghVy5HBqIqqJyV8)

Dagger image:
- [Dagger icons created by Freepik - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/dagger)

Food images:
- [Kale icons by AomAm - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/kale)
- [Sandwich icons by Freepik - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/sandwich)

Background images:
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by barudakvisual - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/2173386-wood-texture-background)
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by dankudraw - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/3343397-wood-texture-background)
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by sarance - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/3157015-wood-texture-background)

## License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Version 3.4: Reworked Menu - now is a Class Added requirements Updated README Minor game changes

README.md, after:

![Game Image](image/others/readme_image_1.png)

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Goal](#goal)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Running](#running)
- [Controls](#controls)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- Big variety with the game's foods, songs, backgrounds and others.
- Menus with many functions, including difficulty selection and play mode.
- Some of the in-game features are the Game Pause and song switcher. 
- Easter egg mode and many others.

## Goal

Singleplayer:
- Score as many points as possible.

Multiplayer:
- Survive longer than the other player.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher.
- Install required libraries:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Running

- Open the Circle-Nom folder with your preferred IDE and launch the `main.py` file.
- Launch the `.exe` file from the releases section. You can also make your own executable by running the `main.spec` file with pyinstaller:
```bash
pyinstaller main.spec
```
- Please note that current both executables do **not** have digital signatures, which might result in some antivirus software flagging them as malicious.

## Controls

Menus:
- Move up and down between options using the `W`, `S` or `↑`, `↓` keys on your keyboard.
- Switch between options using the `A`, `D` or `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
- Press `Enter` to enter the selected option.
- Press `Escape` or `Backspace` to go back in the menus or exit Circle Nom.

In-game:
- Singleplayer:
    - Move using `W`, `A`, `S`, `D` or the `↑`, `↓`, `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
    - Change the music using the `Q` & `E` keys - previous & next song.
    - Pause Circle Nom with the `P` key.
- Multiplayer:
    - Move Player 1 using the `W`, `A`, `S`, `D` keys on your keyboard.
    - Move Player 2 using the `↑`, `↓`, `←`, `→` keys on your keyboard.
    - Change the music using the `Q` & `E` keys - previous & next song.
    - Pause Circle Nom with the `P` key.

## Credits

Music used:
- [Circle Nom Playlist - YouTube](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXh2LnVpYeGshiAfckrBB0CvswgWv08WY&si=fghVy5HBqIqqJyV8)

Dagger image:
- [Dagger icons created by Freepik - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/dagger)

Food images:
- [Kale icons by AomAm - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/kale)
- [Sandwich icons by Freepik - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/sandwich)

Background images:
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by barudakvisual - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/2173386-wood-texture-background)
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by dankudraw - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/3343397-wood-texture-background)
- [Wood Texture Background Pro Vector by sarance - Vecteezy](https://www.vecteezy.com/vector-art/3157015-wood-texture-background)

## License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
